# Questions and Answers

## For how long will my files be stored?

Files will be removed if they have not been viewed for 120 days. A view is
counted when someone visits the file's download page (pixeldrain.com/u/somefile)
or views the file through a list the file is included in
(pixeldrain.com/l/somelist).

If you upload a file while logged into your pixeldrain account you will be able
to delete the file yourself from the download page of the file. If you are not
logged in and you accidentally upload something you shouldn't have, just don't
share the link. The file will expire eventually. File links are not indexed or
published anywhere. As long as you don't share it nobody will see it.

## Do I need to register an account?

Not if you don't want to. You're free to use pixeldrain completely anonymously.
Without a pixeldrain account you can upload files, download files and create
lists of files. And view your uploaded files on the [history page](/history).
This page only shows files which were uploaded anonymously in this web browser.

By registering an account on pixeldrain you will be able to access your files
from any device with a web browser. Files you upload and lists you create will
be linked to your pixeldrain account and will show up on your [personal home
page](/user).

## What cookies does pixeldrain use?

When logging in to a pixeldrain account a cookie named 'pd_auth_key' will be
installed. This cookie keeps your login session active. When you delete it you
will be logged out of your account.

When you use the style selector on the [Appearance](/appearance) page a cookie
called 'style' will be set. This cookie controls the appearance of the website
for you.

When uploading a file pixeldrain will save a list of file links on your
browser's local storage. This data is **only** used for viewing your upload
history on the [history page](/history).

## Is there a clean pixeldrain logo I can use?

Yes, here's a high resolution pixeldrain logo with text. The font is called
Orbitron, it was designed by Matt McInerney and uses the Open Font License.

<img src="/res/img/pixeldrain_high_res.png" style="max-width: 100%; height: 80px;" /><br/>

And here's a vector version of just the icon:

<img src="/res/img/pixeldrain.svg" style="max-width: 100%; height: 80px;" /><br/>

## Can I advertise on pixeldrain?

Please send your advertising inquiries to this e-mail address:
[buzz.off@pixeldrain.com](mailto:buzz.off@pixeldrain.com). That will make sure
your mails never get anywhere near my inbox.

But in all seriousness, I am not interested in running ads on pixeldrain. Ads
are destroying the web through greed and deception. I don't want anything to do
with that. I would recommend everyone to install [uBlock
Origin](https://ublockorigin.com/) to let the greedy ad tech companies know that
we're not standing for it.

## Support

If you have more questions please try asking them in our [support forum on
Discord](https://discord.gg/UDjaBGwr4p). Pixeldrain is a one-man operation, I
can't answer all the e-mails I get. By asking your questions on Discord there's
a chance that someone else can help you. I am also active on Discord myself.

If your question is not suitable for Discord you can reach me at
[support@pixeldrain.com](mailto:support@pixeldrain.com). I get a lot more e-mail
than I can reply to, so I will only reply to urgent problems or things which I
deem important. Abuse reports sent to this address will not be reviewed, use the
abuse address.
